<!-- 
title: Tokyo 
description: Notes from a trip to the world's largest urban agglomeration.
publish_date: 2017-09-17
-->

I visited Tokyo for the second annual Electron Mini-Summit, a convergence of people
working on the [Electron] project. This page is a place for me to take notes
about things I've learned about the city.

## Internet Access

You can buy a data SIM card for your phone at a vending machine in the airport.
These cards come preloaded with a certain allotment of data to be used in a
certain time period, typically one month. You won't be able to make phone calls
or send text messages with these, but you can use VoiP services like Skype or
Google Hangouts if needed.

Before you travel make sure your phone is "unlocked", perhaps not in the
jailbreaking sense of the word, but you need to be sure that it can take a
custom SIM card. Ask your carrier.

You'll need to know what size your SIM card is: Regular, Micro, or Nano.

Both times I've been to Tokyo, I bought the month-long Verizon international
plan, but it didn't really work for me. I could send and receive texts, but the
data was spotty and usually didn't work at all.

## Transit

Taxis and Ubers are very expensive in Tokyo. Unless you're splitting the fare
with a group of friends or family, it's probably not worth it.

You can can buy a **Suica** card at any station (not to be confused with **My
Suica**) which is something different.
You can use your Suica card on the subway, on the bus, and even at some
convenience stores and vending machines.

## Bike Rental

[docomo-cycle.jp](http://docomo-cycle.jp/) is a bike share program.  (Docomo is
a mobile phone operator in Japan, and apparently they've invested in exchange
for their logo and colors on every bike.) There are stations all over the city
where you can pick up a bike, then park it elsewhere. The are options to rent by
the hour, day, or month.

The bikes are equipped with battery-powered electric motors that give a nice
assist as you ride. The motor kicks in only when you're pedaling, so it feels
very natural. Just like riding a bike, but easier.

If you end up renting one of these bikes, here are a few tips:

- Signing up may be easier on your phone than on your computer.  - When the
kickstand is down, there's a lock that snaps into place. You have to flip the
lock open first before the kickstand will go back up.  - I'm staying in the
Shinagawa area, and have seen unlocked bikes all over the place, so I'm assuming
that theft is relatively uncommon. If you end stopping somewhere with no nearby
stations, it's probably safe to leave the bike unattended for a time. Use your
judgement!  - When returning a bike, all you have to do is lock the back wheel.


Here a [Google map of all the stations](https://goo.gl/n66eGZ):

<figure>
  <a href="https://goo.gl/n66eGZ" title="Bike Rental Stations">
    <img src="https://cldup.com/lkrNtm2RiE.png" alt="Bike Rental Stations" />
  </a> <figcaption>Bike rental station map</figcaption>
</figure>

## Food

A few places I've tried and liked:

[T's TanTan Tokyo Station](http://www.nre.co.jp/Portals/0/shop/tantan/) - Clean
and delicious vegan ramen. Tokyo station is very busy, and a great place for
people-watching.

[Kura Sushi Shinagawa Ekimae](http://www.kura-corpo.co.jp/store/detail/220) -
Cheap and good conveyor-belt sushi. Grab food off the conveyor belt or order
something specific using the tablet at your table. Every five plates enters you
in a video lottery with prizes!

[The City Bakery](http://www.thecitybakery.jp/) - In Shinagawa station. Good
espresso drinks, delicious baked goods like [cubic
brioche](https://photos.app.goo.gl/v6D3Ba7jWmNVtsql1), international music. Sit
down or get stuff to go.

## Map

I'm [saving
spots](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1SXIjBPosY8n75ZiP_j3lKA4d1YU&usp=sharing)
on a Google Map as I go:

<iframe
src="https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/embed?mid=1SXIjBPosY8n75ZiP_j3lKA4d1YU"
width="100%" height="600"></iframe>

[Electron]: https://electron.atom.io
